----------------- nsc spring 2022 ----------------------------

digital signature => 
    1. Electronic, encrypted stamp of authentication on electronic or digital information like email messages, macros and electronic documents.                  
    2. Digital signature uses PKI or asymmetric encryption. 
    3. Digital signature is an unique, numerical value of encrypted data used to prove the owner ship or copy right of the data.
    4. To create a digital signature, a one-way hash of the electronic data is encrypted or signed using a private key. 
    5. To verify the digital signature, the hash value is using a public key. If the hash matches a second computed hash of the same data, it proves that the data hasn't changed since it was signed.

--------------

pieces of information included in a digital signature => 
    1. Serial Number
    2. Subject or Signer or Organization Name
    3. Issuer
    4. Signature Algorithm
    5. Date or Validity
    6. Key usage

--------------

why the Organization could be trusted => 
    1. because the Organization was digitally signed
    2. because it comes from a trusted source

--------------

2 types of network intrusion detection systems (NIDS) => 
    1. signature based
    2. anomaly based

--------------

what a vulnerability assessment is and explain its importance for Red Stack’s customers in the scenario => 
    1. vulnerability assessment is the process of identifying, quantifying and prioritizing or ranking the vulnerabilities of the network or system
    2. customers will need the vulnerability assessment to detect the systems that may have been compromised with the Titan malware

--------------

The Titan software source code is stored on a private GitHub repository and can be accessed with the username ‘admin’ and password ‘redstack123’ by all staff members at Red Stack Ltd.

    Explain the weaknesses of using this password for authentication => 
        1. password is easy to crack with dictionary attack
        2. password is weak and easy to guess

    5 methods that can be used to improve password security and access control on the private GitHub repository => 
        1. use a complex password
        2. use biometrics
        3. use multi-factor authentication
        4. regularly changing the password 
        5. access control mechanism to allow the only authorized user can access to the repository

--------------

5 methods to prevent computers from unauthorized access to the data they hold => 
    1. backup data
    2. have strong access control mechanisms
    3. password protect documents and files
    4. encrypt files
    5. encrypt disks

--------------

2 methods that can be used to secure email systems => 
    1. sign the email message to ensure integrity and confirm the identity of the sender
    2. encrypt email body increase confidentiality
    3. encrypt the communication between mail servers to increase the confidentiality of both header and body of the email message

--------------

what a Demilitarized Zone(DMZ) is and how it can be useful => 

    1. DMZ is an internal network but separated from other internal network by a firewall
    2. it can be useful to protect public-facing Email servers with firewalls 
    3. it can be said as a layer of protection that separates a device from the rest of the network

--------------

2 threats of staff using Wi-Fi in public places like airports, coffee shops and hotels to remotely access Red Stack’s network => 
    1. Man-in-the-Middle attack
    2. Sniffing attacks or Eavesdropping
    3. Malware distribution
    4. Session hijacking

--------------

what a Virtual Private Network (VPN) is and how it can be useful in this scenario => 
    1. a VPN allows you to create a secure connection to another networks over the internet
    2. it can allow access to only authenticating staff of the organization to the network and prevent unauthorized access
    3. maintain the confidentiality of the messages sent via the public Wi-fi internet by preventing them from being read or copy during transmission

----------------- nsc spring 2022 done -----------------------



----------------- nsc autumn 2021 ----------------------------

DIFFERENCE between vulnerability scanning and vulnerability management => 
    1. definition => 
        vulnerability management - ongoing process to identify, access and prioritize vulnerabilities
        vulnerability scanning - point-in-time scanning to detect known vulnerabilities
    2. goal => 
        vulnerability management - continuous improvement of network's security
        vulnerability scanning - identify the vulnerabilities in the network, system or application
    3. scope => 
        vulnerability management - includes identifying, risk assessment, prioritizing and monitoring of the vulnerabilities
        vulnerability scanning - limited to identifying the vulnerabilities at the time of scan 
    4. tools => 
        vulnerability management - Qualys VMDR, Tenable.io, Rapid7 InsightVM
        vulnerability scanning - Nessus, OpenVAS, Nikto
    5. process => 
        vulnerability management - identifying, evaluation, prioritizing, remediation, verification of the vulnerabilities
        vulnerability scanning - scanning networks, applications, databases and cloud infrastructures

--------------

WEAKNESS associated with the use of HTTP => 
    1. sensitive data are exposed in the form of clear text which is not encrypted during transmission
    2. Man-in-the-Middle attacks
    3. Sniffing or Eavesdropping attacks

--------------

the main BENEFITS of HTTPS compared to HTTP => 
    1. create a secure communication between web browser and web server
    2. data sent and received are encrypted

--------------

the ROLE of a Certificate Authority (CA) => 
    1. The CA has to issue a certificate and verify the identity of the owner to a certain standard and sign the certificate
    2. CA is responsible for issuing certificates to users, computers or other entities like subordinate CAs. 
    3. Organization must fill an application form for online submission and verify the personal information by the certifying authority
    4. matching private and public keys may be generated by CA or the individual requesting the certificate
    5. CA will verify the identity and information of the requester and verify if the policy of allows the requester to perform that operation and validate the certificate

--------------

highlights of the information included in a digital certificate => 
    1. identity of the owner of the corresponding private key
    2. length of the key
    3. algorithm that the key uses
    4. the associated hashing algorithm 
    5. date of validity of the certificate
    6. the actions that key can be used for 

--------------

control mechanisms that can be implemented to protect the company’s files, documents and customer data stored on hard drives from unauthorized access => 
    1. tools that can be used for full disk encryption are BitLocker(Windows), FileVault(MacOS), VeraCrypt(Window, MacOS, Linux) and so on
    2. file system encryption
    3. password-protecting document access control solutions
    4. encryption of individual files or individual directories on the hard drive

--------------

how the use of biometrics can improve authentication =>
    1. biometrics use unique characteristics of humans such as physical and behavioral traits to create a non-transferrable authentication system 

--------------

two other methods that can be used to improve password authentication on the company’s network => 
    1. using complexing passwords and regularly changing the passwords
    2. implementing a security that is not limited to the password complexation and expiration

--------------

difference between a stateful firewall and a deep packet inspection firewall => 
    1. deep packet inspection firewall can reassemble the contents of the traffic to know what it will deliver to the application for which it was destined for 
    2. stateful packet inspection firewall can inspect the payload of the packet and its associated session and use this information to determine if the packet can pass through or not 


----------------- nsc autumn 2021 done -----------------------